Created blog post about deploying PERN stack applications (#4160)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/deploying-a-pern-stack-application-to-aws/index.md

    enableDnsHostnames: true
});

const appGateway = new aws.ec2.InternetGateway("app-gateway", {
    vpcId: appVpc.id
});

const appRoutetable = new aws.ec2.RouteTable("app-routetable", {
    routes: [
        {
            cidrBlock: "0.0.0.0/0",
            gatewayId: appGateway.id,
        }
    ],
    vpcId: appVpc.id
});

const appRoutetableAssociation = new aws.ec2.MainRouteTableAssociation("app-routetable-association", {
    routeTableId: appRoutetable.id,
    vpcId: appVpc.id
});

const rdsSecurityGroup = new aws.ec2.SecurityGroup("rds-security-group", {
	vpcId: appVpc.id,
	description: "Enables HTTP access",
    ingress: [{
		protocol: 'tcp',
		fromPort: 0,
		toPort: 65535,
		cidrBlocks: ['0.0.0.0/0'],
    }],
    egress: [{
		protocol: '-1',
		fromPort: 0,
		toPort: 0,
		cidrBlocks: ['0.0.0.0/0'],
    }]
});

const firstRdsSubnet = new aws.ec2.Subnet("first-rds-subnet", {
    vpcId: appVpc.id,
    cidrBlock: "172.31.0.0/20",
    availabilityZone: availabilityZone + "a"
});

const secondRdsSubnet = new aws.ec2.Subnet("second-rds-subnet", {
    vpcId: appVpc.id,
    cidrBlock: "172.31.128.0/20",
    availabilityZone: availabilityZone + "b"
});
```

> A SubnetGroup and an RDS instance are created. The latter uses PostgreSQL instead of MySQL, and is given an example port of 2000.

Author: It was part of a test that I did, and I just didn't switch it back. In terms of understandability, having it be the default (5432) might be better than a random magic number of 2000.

                    { name: "RDS_ADDRESS", value: postgresqlRdsServer.address },
                    { name: "RDS_PORT", value: String(2000) },
                    { name: "DATABASE_NAME", value: postgresDatabase.name },
                ],
            },
        },
    },
});
```

The same is true for the client service, which can be reduced to a short and easily understandable format. By default, React is configured to use the port 3000, but it can easily be updated to a different one.

```typescript
const clientsideListener = new awsx.elasticloadbalancingv2.NetworkListener("client-side-listener", { port: 3000 });
const clientsideService = new awsx.ecs.FargateService("client-side-service", {
    taskDefinitionArgs: {
        containers: {
            clientsideService: {
                image: awsx.ecs.Image.fromPath("client-side-service", "./clientside"),
                memory: 512,
                portMappings: [clientsideListener],
                environment: [
                    { name: "SERVER_HOSTNAME", value: serversideListener.endpoint.hostname },
                ],
            },
        },
    },
});
```

> To connect to our PERN stack application, we export the address of the clientside listener and its port, and open it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make our PERN stack application available on the Internet, we export the address of the clientside listener. We can open a browser window with the URl and port to view our application.
```

> in a browser window under a port of 3000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```typescript
export let URL = clientsideListener.endpoint.hostname;
```

> In this example, I explained a few basic principles behind PERN stack applications, and showed how simple it is to create infrastructure to deploy them on ECS. A flexible and optimized tool, Pulumi Crosswalk allows everything from creating simple example applications, to scaling workload, securing and integrating it with your existing infrastructure, or going to production in multiple complex environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, I explained the basic principles behind PERN stack applications and showed how to create the infrastructure to deploy them on ECS. A flexible and optimized tool, Pulumi Crosswalk allows everything from rapidly prototyping applications, to scaling workload, to securing and integrating it with your existing infrastructure, or going to production in multiple complex environments.
```

Next week, I'll _______.

> The blog post's full code can be [found on Github](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/vova/aws-pern-voting-app/aws-pern-voting-app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The blog post's code can be [found on Github](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/vova/aws-pern-voting-app/aws-pern-voting-app).
```

---
title: "Deploying a PERN stack application to AWS"
date: 2020-09-04
meta_desc: Creating and quickly deploying a PERN stack application to the cloud Using Pulumi
meta_image: meta.png
authors: ["vova-ivanov"]
tags: ["aws", "typescript", "docker"]
---

> In this blog post, we will explore PERN stack applications and deploy one to AWS. *PERN* is an acronym for PostgreSQL, Express, React, and Node; and a PERN stack application is a project that uses PostgreSQL, Express as an application framework, React as a user interface framework, and runs on Node. We will also use [Pulumi Crosswalk]({{< relref "/docs/guides/crosswalk/aws" >}}) to reduce the amount of code and provide a quick and straightforward path for deploying the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we will explore PERN stack applications and deploy one to AWS. *PERN* is an acronym for PostgreSQL, Express, React, and Node. A PERN stack application is a project that uses PostgreSQL, Express as an application framework, React as a user interface framework, and runs on Node. We will also use [Pulumi Crosswalk]({{< relref "/docs/guides/crosswalk/aws" >}}) to reduce the amount of code and provide a quick and straightforward path for deploying the application.
```

<!--more-->

> The nature of the project means that it has 4 distinct tiers: a database that keeps track of our data, a stateless server that receives commands and manipulates the database, a clientside server that contains and send out the user interface code, and the internet browser that downloads that code, presents the UI, and sends requests to the stateless server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nature of the project means that it has four distinct tiers: a database that keeps track of our data, a stateless server that receives commands and manipulates the database, a clientside server that contains and send out the user interface code, and the internet browser that downloads that code, presents the UI and sends requests to the stateless server.
```

PERN projects have four distinct tiers:

- a database that keeps track of our data,

- a stateless server that receives commands to manage the database,

- a clientside server that contains and renders the user interface code,

- and the users who run the code in their browsers and send requests to the stateless server.

<Project diagram>

> An advantage of infrastructure as code is that the application and infrastructure deployment can use the same language. As React and the other components use NodeJS, we'll use it for our infrastructure too by writing it TypeScript. The first step is to create a new directory and initialize a Pulumi project with `pulumi new aws-typescript`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An advantage of infrastructure as code is that the application and infrastructure deployment can use the same language. As React and the other components use NodeJS, we'll use it for our infrastructure by writing it in TypeScript. The first step is to create a new directory and initialize a Pulumi project with `pulumi new aws-typescript`.
```

```bash
$ mkdir aws-pern-voting-app && cd aws-pern-voting-app
$ pulumi new aws-typescript
```

This tutorial was written for the [aws-pern-voting-app example](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/vova/aws-pern-voting-app/aws-pern-voting-app) but will work with any other PERN stack application. The example uses two folders to hold the client and server tiers and a Dockerfile that builds images that run as containers in AWS.

> To deploy our PERN stack, the project requires several configuration variables, which we set using `pulumi config set`. The variables are used to configure the PostgreSQL admin account, a user account for initializing the schema and table, and the region of our database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy our PERN stack, the project requires several configuration variables, which we set using `pulumi config set`. The variables are used to configure the PostgreSQL admin account, a user account for initializing the schema and table, and the database's region.
```

```bash
$ pulumi config set sql-admin-name <NAME>
$ pulumi config set sql-admin-password <PASSWORD> --secret
$ pulumi config set sql-user-name <NAME>
$ pulumi config set sql-user-password <PASSWORD> --secret
$ pulumi config set aws:region <REGION>
```

The `package.json` file lists the libraries used by the project. We will add the following to the `dependencies` section:

```json
"@pulumi/cloud-aws": "^0.19.0",
"@pulumi/postgresql": "^2.3.0",
"pg": "^8.3.3"
```

> Our project uses a Dynamic Provider to help create tables and Schemas. It offers the same exact features as our [MySQL provider]({{< relref "/blog/deploying-mysql-schemas-using-dynamic-providers" >}}), but for PostgreSQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our project uses a Dynamic Provider to help create tables and Schemas. It offers the same features as our [MySQL provider]({{< relref "/blog/deploying-mysql-schemas-using-dynamic-providers" >}}), but for PostgreSQL.
```

    login: true,
    connectionLimit: -1}, {
    provider: postgresqlProvider
});
```

We use the Dynamic provider to create a schema and a table, grant permissions for our user to edit and select it, and populate the table with two initial voting options.

```typescript
const creation_script = `
    CREATE SCHEMA voting_app;
    CREATE TABLE voting_app.choice(
        choice_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
        text VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
        vote_count INTEGER NOT NULL
    );
    GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA voting_app TO ${sql_user_name};
    GRANT SELECT, UPDATE ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA voting_app TO ${sql_user_name};
    INSERT INTO voting_app.choice (text, vote_count) VALUES('Tabs', 0);
    INSERT INTO voting_app.choice (text, vote_count) VALUES('Spaces', 0);
`;

const deletion_script = "DROP SCHEMA IF EXISTS voting_app CASCADE";

const postgresqlVotesTable = new Schema("postgresql-votes-schema", {
    creatorName: sql_admin_name,
    creatorPassword: sql_admin_password,
    serverAddress: postgresqlRdsServer.address,
    databaseName: postgresDatabase.name,
    creationScript: creation_script,
    deletionScript: deletion_script,
    postgresUserName: postgresUser.name
});
```

> With the basic infrastructure and provider completed, we can write the application deployment code to ECS. We will use Pulumi Crosswalk, which is a collection of libraries that makes common infrastructure-as-code tasks in AWS easier and more secure by using well-architected best practices automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the basic infrastructure and provider completed, we can write the application deployment code to ECS. We will use Pulumi Crosswalk, a collection of libraries that makes common infrastructure-as-code tasks in AWS easier and more secure by automatically using well-architected best practices.
```

```typescript
const serversideListener = new awsx.elasticloadbalancingv2.NetworkListener("server-side-listener", { port: 5000 });
const serversideService = new awsx.ecs.FargateService("server-side-service", {
    taskDefinitionArgs: {
        containers: {
            serversideService: {
                image: awsx.ecs.Image.fromPath("server-side-service", "./serverside"),
                memory: 512,
                portMappings: [serversideListener],
                environment: [
                    { name: "USER_NAME", value: sql_user_name },
                    { name: "USER_PASSWORD", value: sql_user_password },
                    { name: "RDS_ADDRESS", value: postgresqlRdsServer.address },
                    { name: "RDS_PORT", value: String(2000) },
                    { name: "DATABASE_NAME", value: postgresDatabase.name },
                ],
            },
        },
    },
});
```

> The same is true for the client service, which can be reduced to a short and easy to understand format. By default, React uses port 3000, but it can set to a different port. The `SERVER_HOSTNAME` environment variable which we pass in is used when the container starts to generate a tiny configuration file at runtime called `serverParams.js` with the URL. This way, we do not have to rebuild the entire docker image should the server URL change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same is true for the client service, which is reduced to a short and easy to understand format. By default, React uses port 3000, but it can set to a different port. The `SERVER_HOSTNAME` environment variable is passed in when the container starts to generate a tiny configuration file at runtime called `serverParams.js` with the URL. This way, we do not have to rebuild the entire docker image should the server URL change.
```

```typescript
const clientsideListener = new awsx.elasticloadbalancingv2.NetworkListener("client-side-listener", { port: 3000 });
const clientsideService = new awsx.ecs.FargateService("client-side-service", {
    taskDefinitionArgs: {
        containers: {
            clientsideService: {
                image: awsx.ecs.Image.fromPath("client-side-service", "./clientside"),
                memory: 512,
                portMappings: [clientsideListener],
                environment: [
                    { name: "SERVER_HOSTNAME", value: serversideListener.endpoint.hostname },
                ],
            },
        },
    },
});
```

> To make our PERN stack application available on the Internet, we export the address of the clientside listener. We can open a browser window with the URL and port to view our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make our PERN stack application available on the Internet, we export the clientside listener's address. We can open a browser window with the URL and port to view our application.
```

```typescript
export let URL = clientsideListener.endpoint.hostname;
```

> In this example, I explained the basic principles behind PERN stack applications and showed how to create the infrastructure to deploy them on ECS. A flexible and optimized tool, Pulumi Crosswalk allows everything from rapidly prototyping applications, to scaling workload, to securing and integrating it with your existing infrastructure, or going to production in multiple complex environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, I explained the basic principles behind PERN stack applications and showed how to create the infrastructure to deploy them on ECS. A flexible and optimized tool, Pulumi Crosswalk supports rapidly prototyping applications, scaling workloads, securing and integrating applications in existing infrastructure, and going to production in multiple complex environments.
```

> Next week, I'll demonstrate how to integrate applications with Kubernetes, and how to seamlessly deploy them to EKS using Pulumi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next week, I'll demonstrate how to integrate applications with Kubernetes, and seamlessly deploy them to EKS using Pulumi.
```
